Initial documentation for Azure Extended Network extension in Windows Admin Center (#3868)
MicrosoftDocs/windowsserverdocs: WindowsServerDocs/manage/windows-admin-center/azure/azure-extended-network.md

---
title: Extend your on-premises subnets into Azure using Azure Extended Network
description: Extend your on-premises subnets into Azure using Azure Extended Network
ms.technology: manage
ms.topic: article
author: grcusanz
ms.author: grcusanz
ms.date: 12/17/2019
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: windows-server
---
# Extend your on-premises subnets into Azure using Azure Extended Network

>Applies to: Windows Admin Center, Windows Admin Center Preview

## Overview

Azure Extended Network enables you to stretch an on-premises subnet into Azure to enable seamless migration of machines while enabling them to retain their original on-premises private IP addresses.
The network is extended using a bidirectional VXLAN tunnel between two Windows Server 2019 virtual appliances, one running on-premises and the other running in Azure, each also connected to the subnet to be extended.
Each subnet that you are going to extend requires one pair of appliances.  Multiple subnets can be extended using multiple pairs.

> [!NOTE]

> > Azure Extended Network should only be used for machines that cannot have their IP address changed when migrating to Azure.  It is always better to change the IP address and connect it to a subnet that wholly exists in Azure if that is an option.

Reviewer: Readability comma
```suggestion
> Azure Extended Network should only be used for machines that cannot have their IP address changed when migrating to Azure.  It is always better to change the IP address and connect it to a subnet that wholly exists in Azure, if that is an option.
```

## Planning

> To prepare to use Azure Extended Network you must identify which subnet you want to stretch, then perform the following steps:

Reviewer: Comma usage as elsewhere in this document (consistency)
```suggestion
To prepare to use Azure Extended Network, you must identify which subnet you want to stretch, then perform the following steps:
```

### Capacity planning

You can extend up to 250 IP addresses using Azure Extended Network.  You can expect an aggregate throughput of about 700 Mbps, with some variability depending on the CPU speed of the Azure Extended Network virtual appliances.

### Configuration in Azure

Before you use Windows Admin Center, you must perform the following steps through the Azure Portal:

1. Create a Virtual network in Azure that contains at least two subnets, in addition to subnets required for your gateway connection.  One of the subnets you create must use the same subnet CIDR as the on-premises subnet you want to extend.  The subnet must be unique within your routing domain so that it does not overlap with any on-premises subnets.
2. Configure a Virtual Network Gateway to use a Site-to-site or Express Route connection to connect the Azure Virtual network to your on-premises network.  

> 3. Create a Windows Server 2019 VM in Azure that is capable of running nested virtualization.    Connect the primary network interface to the routable subnet, and the second network interface to the extended subnet.  

Reviewer: Surplus whitespace (even when allowing for double spaces)
```suggestion
3. Create a Windows Server 2019 VM in Azure that is capable of running nested virtualization.  Connect the primary network interface to the routable subnet, and the second network interface to the extended subnet.  
```

4. Start the VM, enable the Hyper-V role, and reboot.  For example:

```powershell
Install-WindowsFeature -Name Hyper-V -IncludeManagementTools -Restart
```

5. Create two external Virtual Switches in the VM and connect one to each of the network interfaces.  For example:

```powershell
New-VMSwitch -Name "External" -AllowManagementOS $true -NetAdapterName "Ethernet"
New-VMSwitch -Name "Extended" -AllowManagementOS $true -NetAdapterName "Ethernet 2"
```

### On-premises configuration

You must also perform some manual configuration in your on-premises infrastructure:

> 1. Make sure the subnet you want to extend and a second subnet that is unique and does not overlap with any subnets in the Azure Virtual Network are available on the physical machine where you will deploy the on-premises VM.

Reviewer: Readability commas
```suggestion
1. Make sure the subnet you want to extend and a second subnet that is unique, and does not overlap with any subnets in the Azure Virtual Network, are available on the physical machine where you will deploy the on-premises VM.
```

> [!NOTE] 
> Windows Admin Center requires an additional machine to use as the Windows Admin Center gateway.  Do not use either of the two Virtual Machines that you created above as the Windows Admin Center gateway.  You may need to create an additional machine for this purpose.

## Deploy

Deployment is driven through Windows Admin Center.  

### Install and configure Windows Admin Center

1. [Download and install Windows Admin Center](../understand/windows-admin-center.md) onto any computer capable of running Windows Admin Center other than the two virtual appliances.  
2. Add Azure Extended Network from the feed.  To do this, select **Settings**:
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/settings.png)
Then select **Extensions**:
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/installed-extensions.png)
In the Available extensions list, select **Azure Extended Network**, then click **Install**.
After a few seconds you should see a message indicating a successful installation:
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/installation-success.png)

> 3. Connect your Windows Admin Center deployment to Azure if you haven’t already done so.  If you skip this step now you will be prompted to do so later during the configuration process.

Reviewer: Readability commas
```suggestion
3. Connect your Windows Admin Center deployment to Azure, if you haven’t already done so.  If you skip this step now, you will be prompted to do so later during the configuration process.
```

4. Add a connection to the on-premises virtual appliance.  Return to the connection page and Select **Add** and enter the connection information (machine name and credentials) for the On-premises virtual appliance. Click on the server to connect and you should see Azure Extended Network in the list of tools for this server:
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/azure-extended-network.png)
Click on **Azure Extended Network** to begin.  The first time you will be presented with an overview and a setup button:  
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/azure-extended-network-intro.png)

### Deploy Azure Extended network

1. Click **Set up** to begin the configuration.
2. Click **Next** to proceed past the Overview.
3. On the Upload Package panel, you will need to download the Azure Extended Network agent package and upload it to the virtual appliance.  Follow the instructions on the panel.  

> [!IMPORTANT] Scroll down if necessary and click **Upload** before you click **Next: Extended-Network Setup**.

> 4. Select the Subnet CIDR of the On-Premises network that you want to extend.  The list of subnets is read in from the virtual appliance.  If you have not connected the virtual appliance to the correct set of subnets, then you will not see the desired subnet CIDR in this list.

Reviewer: (generally) redundant "then"
```suggestion
4. Select the Subnet CIDR of the On-Premises network that you want to extend.  The list of subnets is read in from the virtual appliance.  If you have not connected the virtual appliance to the correct set of subnets, you will not see the desired subnet CIDR in this list.
```

Click Next after selecting the Subnet CIDR.
5. Select the Subscription, Resource Group and Virtual Network that you are extending into:
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/azure-network.png) 
The Azure Location and Azure Subnet will be selected automatically.  Click Next: Extended-Network Gateway Setup to proceed.
6. You will now configure the virtual appliances.  The on-premises gateway should have its information populated automatically:
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/azure-network-gateway.png) 
If it looks correct, you can click Next.

> 7. For the Azure virtual appliance you will need to select the Resource Group and VM to use:

Reviewer: This looks like a sentence expected directly above an image, making the subsequent text lines seem out of order. Is an ending period (dot) intended?
```suggestion
7. For the Azure virtual appliance, you will need to select the Resource Group and VM to use.
```
Also: readability (grammatical) comma.

Author: This line was actually missing an image.  I've added that in a separate commit.

After selecting the VM, you will also need to select the Azure Extended-Network Gateway Subnet CIDR.  Then click Next: Deploy.

> 8. Review the summary information then click Deploy to begin the deployment process.  Deployment will take approximately 5-10 minutes.  When deployment is complete you will see the following panel for managing the extended IP addresses, and status should say **OK**:

Reviewer: grammatical/readability comma + definite article
```suggestion
8. Review the summary information then click Deploy to begin the deployment process.  Deployment will take approximately 5-10 minutes.  When deployment is complete, you will see the following panel for managing the extended IP addresses, and the status should say **OK**:
```

![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/installation-complete.png) 

## Manage

Each IP address that you want to be reachable across the extended network will need to be configured.  You can configure up to 250 addresses to extend.
To extend an address

1. Click on **Add IPv4 Addresses**:
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/add-ipv4-addresses.png) 

2. You will see the **Add new IPv4 Addresses** flyout on the right:
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/add-ipv4-addresses-panel.png) 

3. Use the **Add** button to manually add an address.  Addresses that you add that are on-premises will be reachable by the Azure Addresses that you add to the Azure Address list, and vice versa.

> 4. Azure Extended Network scans the network to discovered IP addresses and populates the Suggestion lists based on this scan.  To extend these addresses you must use the dropdown list and select the checkbox next to the discovered address.  Not all addresses will be discovered.  Optionally, use the **Add** button to manually add addresses that are not discovered automatically.

Reviewer: possibly wrong tense (syntax/grammar) + grammatical/readability commas
```suggestion
4. Azure Extended Network scans the network to discover IP addresses, and populates the Suggestion lists based on this scan.  To extend these addresses, you must use the dropdown list and select the checkbox next to the discovered address.  Not all addresses will be discovered.  Optionally, use the **Add** button to manually add addresses that are not discovered automatically.
```

![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/add-ipv4-addresses-panel-filled.png)

5. Click **Submit** when complete.  You will see the status change to **Updating**, then **Progressing**, and finally back to **OK** when the configuration is complete.

Your addresses are now extended.  Use the Add IPv4 Addresses button to add additional addresses at any time.  If an IP address is no longer in use at either end of the extended network, select the checkbox next to it and select Remove IPv4 Addresses.

> If you no longer want to use Azure Extended Network, click the **Remove Azure Extended-Network** button.  This will uninstall the agent from the two virtual appliances and remove the extended IP addresses.  The network will stop being extended.  You will have to re-run the setup after removing if you want to start using the extended network again.

Reviewer: grammatical/readability comma + referencing pronoun
```suggestion
If you no longer want to use Azure Extended Network, click the **Remove Azure Extended-Network** button.  This will uninstall the agent from the two virtual appliances and remove the extended IP addresses.  The network will stop being extended.  You will have to re-run the setup after removing it, if you want to start using the extended network again.
```

## Troubleshooting

If you receive an error during the deployment of Azure Extended Network, follow the following steps:

1. Verify that both virtual appliances are using Windows Server 2019.
2. Verify that you are not running the Windows Admin Center gateway on one of the virtual appliances.  It is recommended that you run Windows Admin Center from an on-premises network.
3. Make sure you can remote into the on-premises VM from the Windows Admin Center gateway using enter-pssession.

> 4. If there is a firewall in between Azure and on-premises, confirm that it is configured to allow UDP traffic on the selected port (default 4789).   Use a tool such as ctsTraffic to configure a listener and a sender.  Verify traffic can be sent in both directions on the specified port.

Reviewer: cosmetic/readability
```suggestion
4. If there is a firewall in between Azure and on-premises, confirm that it is configured to allow UDP traffic on the selected port (default 4789).   Use a tool such as ctsTraffic to configure a listener and a sender.  Verify that traffic can be sent in both directions on the specified port.
```

5. Use pktmon to verify that packets are being sent and received as expected.  Run pktmon on each virtual appliance:

```powershell
Pktmon start –etw
```

> 6. Run Azure Extended Network configuration

Reviewer: missing colon
```suggestion
6. Run Azure Extended Network configuration:
```

```powershell
Pktmon stop
Netsh trace convert input=<path to pktmon etl file>
```

> 7. Open the text file that is produced from each virtual appliance and search for UDP traffic on the specified port (default 4789).   If you see traffic sent from the on-premises virtual appliance, but not received by the Azure virtual appliance then you need to verify the routing and firewall between the appliances.  If you see traffic sent from on-premises into Azure, you should then see the Azure virtual appliance send a packet in response.  If that packet is never received by the on-premises virtual appliance then you need to verify that the routing is correct and there is not a firewall blocking traffic in between.

Reviewer: surplus space + readability comma instead of "then" (slightly overused)
```suggestion
7. Open the text file that is produced from each virtual appliance and search for UDP traffic on the specified port (default 4789).   If you see traffic sent from the on-premises virtual appliance, but not received by the Azure virtual appliance, you need to verify the routing and firewall between the appliances.  If you see traffic sent from on-premises into Azure, you should then see the Azure virtual appliance send a packet in response.  If that packet is never received by the on-premises virtual appliance, you need to verify that the routing is correct and there is not a firewall blocking traffic in between.
```

---
title: Extend your on-premises subnets into Azure using Azure Extended Network
description: Extend your on-premises subnets into Azure using Azure Extended Network
ms.technology: manage
ms.topic: article
author: grcusanz
ms.author: grcusanz
ms.date: 12/17/2019
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: windows-server
---
# Extend your on-premises subnets into Azure using Azure Extended Network

>Applies to: Windows Admin Center, Windows Admin Center Preview

## Overview

Azure Extended Network enables you to stretch an on-premises subnet into Azure to enable seamless migration of machines while enabling them to retain their original on-premises private IP addresses.

> The network is extended using a bidirectional VXLAN tunnel between two Windows Server 2019 virtual appliances, one running on-premises and the other running in Azure, each also connected to the subnet to be extended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The network is extended using a bidirectional VXLAN tunnel between two Windows Server 2019 VMs acting as virtual appliances, one running on-premises and the other running in Azure, each also connected to the subnet to be extended.
```

## Planning

To prepare to use Azure Extended Network, you must identify which subnet you want to stretch, then perform the following steps:

### Capacity planning

You can extend up to 250 IP addresses using Azure Extended Network.  You can expect an aggregate throughput of about 700 Mbps, with some variability depending on the CPU speed of the Azure Extended Network virtual appliances.

### Configuration in Azure

Before you use Windows Admin Center, you must perform the following steps through the Azure Portal:

1. Create a Virtual network in Azure that contains at least two subnets, in addition to subnets required for your gateway connection.  One of the subnets you create must use the same subnet CIDR as the on-premises subnet you want to extend.  The subnet must be unique within your routing domain so that it does not overlap with any on-premises subnets.
2. Configure a Virtual Network Gateway to use a Site-to-site or Express Route connection to connect the Azure Virtual network to your on-premises network.  

> 3. Create a Windows Server 2019 VM in Azure that is capable of running nested virtualization.  Connect the primary network interface to the routable subnet, and the second network interface to the extended subnet.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create a Windows Server 2019 VM in Azure that is capable of running nested virtualization. This is one of your two virtual appliances. Connect the primary network interface to the routable subnet, and the second network interface to the extended subnet.  
```

4. Start the VM, enable the Hyper-V role, and reboot.  For example:

```powershell
Install-WindowsFeature -Name Hyper-V -IncludeManagementTools -Restart
```

5. Create two external Virtual Switches in the VM and connect one to each of the network interfaces.  For example:

```powershell
New-VMSwitch -Name "External" -AllowManagementOS $true -NetAdapterName "Ethernet"
New-VMSwitch -Name "Extended" -AllowManagementOS $true -NetAdapterName "Ethernet 2"
```

### On-premises configuration

> You must also perform some manual configuration in your on-premises infrastructure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must also perform some manual configuration in your on-premises infrastructure, including creating a VM to server as the on-premises virtual appliance:
```

1. Make sure the subnet you want to extend and a second subnet that is unique, and does not overlap with any subnets in the Azure Virtual Network, are available on the physical machine where you will deploy the on-premises VM.

> 2. Create a Windows Server 2019 VM on any hypervisor that supports nested virtualization.   It is strongly recommended that you create this as a highly available VM in a cluster.  Connect a virtual network adapter to the routable subnet, and a second virtual network adapter to the extended subnet.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create a Windows Server 2019 VM on any hypervisor that supports nested virtualization. This is the on-premises virtual appliance. We recommended that you create this as a highly available VM in a cluster. Connect a virtual network adapter to the routable subnet, and a second virtual network adapter to the extended subnet.  
```

> 3. Start the VM, enable the Hyper-V role, and reboot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Start the VM and then run this command from a PowerShell session in the VM to enable the Hyper-V role and then restart the VM:
```

Reviewer 2: I forget if this needs to be an administrative session?

```powershell
Install-WindowsFeature -Name Hyper-V -IncludeManagementTools -Restart
```

> 4. Create two external Virtual Switches in the VM and connect one to each of the network interfaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Run the following commands in a PowerShell session in the VM to create two external virtual switches in the VM and connect one to each of the network interfaces:
```

```powershell
New-VMSwitch -Name "External" -AllowManagementOS $true -NetAdapterName "Ethernet"
New-VMSwitch -Name "Extended" -AllowManagementOS $true -NetAdapterName "Ethernet 2"
```

> 5. You will need a separate machine for running the Windows Admin Center gateway.  You can create another Windows Server VM for this purpose, or any Windows 10 PC.

Reviewer 2: I suggest deleting this step since you cover it later, right? If not, I'd move it to step 1 and include a link to download.

> ### Additional pre-requisites

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Additional prerequisites
```

> If you have a firewall in between your on-premises network and Azure, you must configure it to allow for asymmetric routing.  This may include steps to disable sequence number randomization and enabling TCP state bypass. Refer to your firewall vendor documentation for these steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a firewall between your on-premises network and Azure, you must configure it to allow for asymmetric routing. This may include steps to disable sequence number randomization and enabling TCP state bypass. Refer to your firewall vendor documentation for these steps.
```

> > [!NOTE] 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> > Windows Admin Center requires an additional machine to use as the Windows Admin Center gateway.  Do not use either of the two Virtual Machines that you created above as the Windows Admin Center gateway.  You may need to create an additional machine for this purpose.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: I think we can just make this clear when you install Windows Admin Center, below.

## Deploy

Deployment is driven through Windows Admin Center.  

### Install and configure Windows Admin Center

> 1. [Download and install Windows Admin Center](../understand/windows-admin-center.md) onto any computer capable of running Windows Admin Center other than the two virtual appliances.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Download and install Windows Admin Center](../understand/windows-admin-center.md) onto any computer capable of running Windows Admin Center other than the two virtual appliances you created earlier.  
```

> 2. Add Azure Extended Network from the feed.  To do this, select **Settings**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In Windows Admin Center, select **Settings** (from the upper-right corner of the page) > **Extensions**. 
```

> ![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/settings.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: We don't really need this screenshot, so I suggest omitting it and jumping straight to the next one.

Then select **Extensions**:

> ![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/installed-extensions.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Screenshot showing the available extensions tab of Settings](../media/azure-extended-network/installed-extensions.png)
```

> In the Available extensions list, select **Azure Extended Network**, then click **Install**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> After a few seconds you should see a message indicating a successful installation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/installation-success.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Connect your Windows Admin Center deployment to Azure, if you haven’t already done so.  If you skip this step now, you will be prompted to do so later during the configuration process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. On the **Available extensions** tab, select **Azure Extended Network**, and then select **Install**.
After a few seconds you should see a message indicating a successful installation.
3. [Connect Windows Admin Center to Azure](azure-integration.md), if you haven’t already done so. If you skip this step now, we'll ask you to do so later in the process.
```

> 4. Add a connection to the on-premises virtual appliance.  Return to the connection page and Select **Add** and enter the connection information (machine name and credentials) for the On-premises virtual appliance. Click on the server to connect and you should see Azure Extended Network in the list of tools for this server:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In Windows Admin Center, go to **All connections** > **Add** and then select **Add** in the **Windows Server** tile. Enter the server name (and credentials if required) for the on-premises virtual appliance.
5. Select the newly added server to connect to it. You should see Azure Extended Network in the list of tools for this server:
```

> ![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/azure-extended-network.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Screenshot of Windows Admin Center showing the Azure Extended Network tool in Server Manager on the on-premises virtual appliance](../media/azure-extended-network/azure-extended-network.png)
```

Click on **Azure Extended Network** to begin.  The first time you will be presented with an overview and a setup button:  
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/azure-extended-network-intro.png)

> ### Deploy Azure Extended network

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deploy Azure Extended Network
```

1. Click **Set up** to begin the configuration.
2. Click **Next** to proceed past the Overview.
3. On the Upload Package panel, you will need to download the Azure Extended Network agent package and upload it to the virtual appliance.  Follow the instructions on the panel.  

> [!IMPORTANT] Scroll down if necessary and click **Upload** before you click **Next: Extended-Network Setup**.

> 4. Select the Subnet CIDR of the On-Premises network that you want to extend.  The list of subnets is read in from the virtual appliance.  If you have not connected the virtual appliance to the correct set of subnets, you will not see the desired subnet CIDR in this list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Select the Subnet CIDR of the on-premises network that you want to extend. The list of subnets is read in from the virtual appliance.  If you have not connected the virtual appliance to the correct set of subnets, you will not see the desired subnet CIDR in this list.
```

Click Next after selecting the Subnet CIDR.

> 5. Select the Subscription, Resource Group and Virtual Network that you are extending into:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Select the subscription, resource Group and virtual network that you are extending into:
```

![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/azure-network.png) 

> The Azure Location and Azure Subnet will be selected automatically.  Click Next: Extended-Network Gateway Setup to proceed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The region (Azure location) and subnet are selected automatically. Select Next: Extended-Network Gateway Setup to proceed.
```

Reviewer 2: I think the UI text could be improved here - I think we use [Azure region](https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/Styleguide/Read?id=2696&topicid=28019) instead of "Azure location", but we haven't been super consistent on that... Regardless, everything should be sentence case. If this is an important feature, I should probably do a UI text review of it at some point.

6. You will now configure the virtual appliances.  The on-premises gateway should have its information populated automatically:
![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/on-premises-network-gateway.png) 
If it looks correct, you can click Next.

> 7. For the Azure virtual appliance you will need to select the Resource Group and VM to use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. For the Azure virtual appliance you will need to select the resource group and VM to use:
```

![Image](../media/azure-extended-network/add-ipv4-addresses-panel-filled.png)

5. Click **Submit** when complete.  You will see the status change to **Updating**, then **Progressing**, and finally back to **OK** when the configuration is complete.

Your addresses are now extended.  Use the Add IPv4 Addresses button to add additional addresses at any time.  If an IP address is no longer in use at either end of the extended network, select the checkbox next to it and select Remove IPv4 Addresses.

If you no longer want to use Azure Extended Network, click the **Remove Azure Extended-Network** button.  This will uninstall the agent from the two virtual appliances and remove the extended IP addresses.  The network will stop being extended.  You will have to re-run the setup after removing it, if you want to start using the extended network again.

## Troubleshooting

If you receive an error during the deployment of Azure Extended Network, follow the following steps:

1. Verify that both virtual appliances are using Windows Server 2019.

> 2. Verify that you are not running the Windows Admin Center gateway on one of the virtual appliances.  It is recommended that you run Windows Admin Center from an on-premises network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Verify that you are not running the Windows Admin Center on one of the virtual appliances.  We recommend that you run Windows Admin Center from an on-premises network.
```
